So now we have the initial state, we have that function,
what happens inside of the function then?
I mentioned that we now have to find out which kind of action was dispatched
so that we know how to edit our state.
Again don't get confused that we're not dispatching actions yet,
we'll soon add the code to do so. Now to check different kinds of possible actions,
you could add multiple if statements and run different codes depending on which action you have or since
we have multiple possible conditions, you can use a switch case statement and then on the action, you
have to check the type of that action. Now to get better TypeScript support, you can add a type here
to the argument, to the action argument and the type would be action, where action is actually imported
not from this package but where action is actually imported from @ngrx/store. This exports an
action interface
and this simply is an interface that forces any action to have a type property, which is why we can safely
check it here.
So now I'm switching on the action type and now we can just register different cases, so different action
types we want to handle.
Now it's totally up to you as a developer of this application which action types your application has
and here, we could start with a simple one, if we have a look at the shopping service, getting doesn't really
change the state but maybe we start with adding an ingredient because that will change our ingredients
state,
it will add a new one.
So we could start with a simple state which we now give an identifier or type is the identifier but
the value of type is a string.
So here, we could name this add ingredient.
Now it's absolutely up to you what the value here is
but the convention is to use an all uppercase text which kind of is clear about what this action will
do,
so here if I give this action an identifier, a type of add ingredient, it's pretty clear that this
action will probably add an ingredient.
So add ingredient is the case here
and with that case registered, we now have to do what?
If you recall what I said on the slide, we have to return a new state now.
So we get the old state and we need to return a new state,
now what you could do is you could take the state which has the ingredients property and then simply
use push to add a new ingredient and that would be totally wrong because state changes with NgRx
always have to be immutable, which means you must not edit the existing or the previous state,
it's absolutely forbidden and a bad practice if you do so.
So never touch the existing state,
instead return a new object which will replace the old state
and to not lose all the old data, copy the old state with the spread operator. That is next generation
Javascript syntax which is also supported by TypeScript, it essentially pulls out all the properties
of the old state and adds these properties to this new object.
Hence we have a new object with the old data and hence we have a copy of the old state
and if we now edit this copy, it's OK. So we copied all the old state and now I want to overwrite the ingredients,
so I'll add the ingredients property and now we can assign a new value to that.
Now correctly, you would say that the old state was just an object with the ingredients property.
So if I copy the entire old state and I then change the ingredients, I essentially don't need to copy
it and indeed, you could omit this here because we're changing the only thing the state has.
Still, it is a good practice to always copy the old state because later and in other apps, you will certainly
have some states that consist of more than one property
and if you then only change one of the properties and you forget to copy the others, you overwrite the
old state with the new state where you dumped all the properties you didn't change
and that's not something you want.
So rule of thumb, always copy the old state then overwrite what you want to change.
Now ingredients has to be an array and of course here, I don't want to lose my old ingredients. Therefore
in this ingredients array,
I also again copy my old state ingredients now. So I access the previous state which we still have here
in the state argument and there, I access the ingredients property which holds this array of ingredients
and the spread operator can also be used on arrays to pull out all the elements and I then add all these
elements I pulled out to this array here.
So therefore now, the ingredients array is a new array with the old elements in there. Now
side note, the elements themselves are also objects and I didn't copy those,
so here we technically still have the old objects in that array but we don't change them,
so that is fine.
When I do change however is I do add a new element here
and
where do I find this?
It has to be part of the action somehow
but we don't know yet.
So for now, let's just add the entire action object here even though I can already tell you that this
is not the final solution because this is an object that for example has a type property and ingredient
doesn't have a type property,
so adding the action is certainly wrong but it's a first step.
Let's next have a look at these actions and see how we actually create and dispatch actions.